---
layout: post
title:  about this blog
date:   2019-02-06 20:14:00
description: the inaugural post of this blog
---

This blog is part of the __Complex Automaton Base__ (CAB) project. The CAB is a base or framework for computer
simulations. These take place in a discretized space, the so called
[cellular automaton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cellular_automaton) which at its core is a grid of cells, each
carrying its own internal state. A state change in a cell is often dependent on the states of its neighboring cells.
This makes cellular automata an ideal tool to model and simulate spatial propagation properties, like the spread of
forest fires, percolation through different layers of soil and heat convection. Additionally the CAB also allows to
create an [agent-based systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agent-based_model) on top of the cellular automaton.
Agents are autonomously 'thinking' entities which can act and interact with each other. Agent-based systems are often
used to model and simulate interactions and behavior between people, robots - or on more abstract levels computers in
networks.

By combining both approaches - which is commonly referred to as _Complex Automaton_ - the CAB allows agents to act and
interact within a two-dimensional space. Using the cell states and update functions allows agents to manipulate not
only themselves but also the space they are living in.

The CAB is written in the [Python](https://www.python.org/) programming language and designed to make creating agent-
based and/or cellular simulations as quick and easy as possible. This way more time can be spent on designing and
prototyping models & simulations and less time on implementing them.

In the upcoming posts on this blog I will try and provide insights about
- the fascination with complexity and complex systems,
- creating and exploring complexity with the help of computer simulations
- using the CAB project to quickly get a simulation up and running
- my inspiration for creating the CAB project and my experiences in the (ongoing) development workB

A more detailed description of the CAB project can be found in the [CAB Project](/cab_project/) section.

